=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_eku,
SSL_set_eku
- set peer certificate usage requirements to be verified

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 int SSL_CTX_set_eku(SSL_CTX *ctx, int nid);
 int SSL_set_eku(SSL *ssl, int nid);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_CTX_set_eku() and SSL_set_eku() set the given I<nid> as the expected
Extended Key Usage (EKU) in the verification parameters of I<ctx> or I<ssl>,
respectively.
Using for I<nid> the value B<NID_undef> resets the requirement.
Otherwise the NID must correspond to an EKU OID, for example B<NID_server_auth>.
It may have been obtained by parsing a text string using L<OBJ_txt2nid(3)>.
Likely only B<NID_client_auth> or B<NID_server_auth> will make sense with SSL.

If provided, the NID overrides any purpose requirements for the entire chain
and determines the acceptable EKU for the leaf certificate in the chain,
i.e., the peer certificate.
This certificate must either not have an EKU extension,
or its EKU extension must include the desired EKU or B<anyExtendedKeyUsage>,
or I<nid> equals B<anyExtendedKeyUsage>.
If the B<X509_V_FLAG_EKU_INCLUDED> verification flag is set the EKU extension
must be present in the certificate and must include the specified EKU I<nid>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_eku() and SSL_CTX_set_eku()
return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OBJ_txt2nid(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_verify(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The SSL_CTX_set_eku() and SSL_CTX_set_eku()
functions were added in OpenSSL 3.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
